Nested Queries Updates (#25124)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/nested_queries.md

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-percentiles-ui.png" alt="example of percentiles  using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-percentiles-json.png" alt="example of percentiles  using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

## Standard Deviation

Standard deviation helps measure the variability or dispersion of a dataset. The following query calculates the standard deviation of the sum of API request counts, averaged over 5-minute intervals, and rolled up over 1-hour periods:

{{% collapse-content title="Standard deviation example query" level="h5" %}}
```text
"rollup(sum:api.requests.count{*}.rollup(avg,300),'stddev',14400)"
```
In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-ui.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-jsonigh.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

## Higher Resolution Queries

> As the query time frame increases, the rollup interval becomes less granular, preventing you from querying anything more detailed than those default time intervals. With nested queries, you can now access more granular, high-resolution data over longer periods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reminder, every metric query contains an initial layer of time aggregation (aka rollup) which controls the granularity of datapoints plotted on a graph. Datadog provides default rollup time intervals that grow as your overall query timeframe grows. With nested queries, you can now access more granular, high-resolution data over longer, historical timeframes.
```

Reviewer: Can we include a general image that resembles: 
<img width="713" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/df96e805-2ba0-41f6-b0c4-93c5ab6ddccd">

> Here's an example that calculates the standard deviation of high-resolution metrics batch counts, with a 5-minute base and a 4-hour reducer interval:

Reviewer: Move this within the collapsable window

> Here's an example that calculates the standard deviation of high-resolution metrics batch counts, with a 5-minute base and a 4-hour reducer interval:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Since we don't really mention the term reducer anywhere above, I'd recommend not introducing terms that aren't defined in this summary sentence

{{% collapse-content title="Higher resolution example query" level="h5" %}}
```text

> "rollup(sum:dd.metrics.query.batch.count{*}.rollup(avg,300),`stddev`,14400)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically when querying a metric over the past month, you would see data at 4-hour granularity. You can now use nested queries to access higher granularity data over this historical timeframe

Note: We recommend you define your initial rollup with the most granular rollup interval and use multilayer time aggregation with coarser rollup intervals to get more user-readable graphs.
```

```
In the UI or JSON tab:

> {{< img src="/dashboards/querying/nested-queries-higher-res-ui.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: These images are broken for me

{{< img src="/dashboards/querying/nested-queries-higher-res-json.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

## How can I use Datadog API's to leverage nested queries?

> Nested queries functionality will be available in the same public API we already offer customers for querying their metrics data [here][3].

Reviewer: This wording doesn't make sense for public docs -- keep your audience in mind

> Nested queries functionality will be available in the same public API we already offer customers for querying their metrics data [here][3].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use nested queries functionality in our public API for querying timeseries data [here][3]. Simply change the contents of the **formula** object
```

> You would need to change the contents of the formula string parameter as seen here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Nested Queries
further_reading:
- link: "/dashboards/querying/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Dashboard Querying"
---

## Overview

> {{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true">}}

Author: @estherk15 it seems like the "Join the Beta!" banner is the default text -- is there any way we can change it to preview instead?

  This feature is in Preview. Please reach out to Customer Success to get this feature enabled. 
{{< /callout >}}  

Every metric query in Datadog consists of two layers of aggregation by default (quick refresher [here][5]).

> Nested queries allows users to reuse the results of an initial existing query as input to a subsequent one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nested queries allows you to reuse the results of a previous query in a subsequent one.
```

{{< img src="metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-example-video.mp4" alt="How to configure nested queries in the UI" video=true style="width:100%" >}}

Nested queries unlocks several powerful capabilities: 

- [Multilayer aggregation][6]

> - [Percentiles and standard deviation on non-distribution metrics][7]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Percentiles and standard deviation on count/rate/gauge type metrics[7]
```

- [Higher resolution queries over historical timeframes][8]

## Multilayer aggregation

> In Datadog, each metric query in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregation: first by time, then by space (quick refresher [here][5]). Multilayer aggregation allows you to apply additional layers of time or space aggregation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Datadog, each metric query in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregation: first by time, then by space (review the anatomy of a metric's query [here][5]). Multilayer aggregation allows you to apply additional layers of time or space aggregation.
```

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-before-after.png" alt="example of applying nested queries before and after" style="width:100%;" >}}

Other functions cannot be combined with multilayer aggregation.

### Multilayer time aggregation

Multilayer time aggregation can be accessed with the `rollup` function. As a reminder, every metric query already contains an initial `rollup` (time aggregation) that controls the granularity of the data points displayed on the graph. For more information, see the [Rollup][1] documentation. 

You can apply additional layers of time aggregation with subsequent rollups.

The first rollup supports the following aggregators:
- `avg`
- `sum`
- `min`
- `max`
- `count`

> Additional layers provided by multilayer time aggregation supports additional time aggregators: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional layers provided by multilayer time aggregation supports the following time aggregators: 
```

- `avg`
- `sum`
- `min`
- `max`
- `count`
- `arbitrary percentile pxx` (`p78, p99, p99.99, etc.`)
- `stddev`

> | Supported Functions   | Description                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multilayer time aggregation can be used with the following functions: 

| Supported Functions   | Description                                                                                    |
```

|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Arithmetic operators   | `+, -, *, /`                                                                                  |
| Timeshift functions    | `<METRIC_NAME>{*}, -<TIME_IN_SECOND>`<br> `hour_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `day_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `week_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `month_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})` |
| Top-k selection        | `top(<METRIC_NAME>{*}, <LIMIT_TO>, '<BY>', '<DIR>')`                                         |

> Other functions cannot be combined with multilayer aggregation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any functions not listed above cannot be combined with multilayer time aggregation. 
```

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-time-agg-json.png" alt="example of multilayer time aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

### Multilayer space aggregation

Once you've already specified tag(s) in your first layer of space aggregation to group by, multilayer space aggregation can be accessed with the `Group By` function. As a reminder, every metrics query already contains an initial space aggregation that controls the number of timeseries displayed on the graph. For example, this query `avg:system.cpu.usage{*} by {host}` plots the average cpu usage for every host. 

You can apply additional layers of space aggregation with subsequent `Group Bys`.
Note: if you do not specify tag(s) to group by in your initial space aggregation layer, multilayer space aggregation will not be available.

The first layer of space aggregation supports the following aggregators:

- avg by
- sum by
- min by
- max by

Additional layers of space aggregation support:

- avg by
- sum by
- min by
- max by
- arbitrary percentile pXX (p75, p99, p99.99, etc.)
- stddev by

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multilayer space aggregation can be used with the following functions: 
```

| Supported Functions   | Description                                                                                    |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Arithmetic operators   | `+, -, *, /`                                                                                  |
| Timeshift functions    | `<METRIC_NAME>{*}, -<TIME_IN_SECOND>`<br> `hour_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `day_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `week_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `month_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})` |
| Top-k selection        | `top(<METRIC_NAME>{*}, <LIMIT_TO>, '<BY>', '<DIR>')`                                         |

> Other functions cannot be combined with multilayer aggregation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any other functions not listed above cannot be combined with multilayer space aggregation. 
```

All space aggregators with the exception of percentile space aggregators have one argument, which is the tag key(s) you'd want to group by. Percentile space aggregators require two arguments: 
- The arbitrary percentile pXX
- The tag(s) to group by

{{% collapse-content title="Space aggregation example queries" level="h5" %}}
This initial query, `avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300)` calculates the sum of average CPU utilization, grouped by `env` and `host` every 5 minutes. Then multilayer space aggregation is applied to calculate maximum value of the average CPU utilization by `env`.

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-space-agg-ui.png" alt="example of multilayer space aggregation in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-space-agg-json.png" alt="example of multilayer space aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

## Percentiles and Standard Deviation for Aggregated Counts/Rates/Gauges

> Percentiles and standard deviation for aggregated counts/rates/gauges are a part of the multilayer aggregation aggregators. They allow you to better understand the variability and spread of your large datasets and allow you to better identify outliers. The percentile/standard deviation calculation offered in nested queries is computed on top of the results of an existing, aggregated metric query. For globally accurate percentiles that are computed on unaggregated, raw values of a metric, use [distribution metrics][9] instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use multilayer aggregation (time / space) to query percentiles and standard deviation from queries on counts/rates/gauges. They allow you to better understand the variability and spread of your large datasets and allow you to better identify outliers. 

Note: nested queries' percentile/standard deviation aggregators are calculated using the results of an existing, aggregated metric query. For globally accurate percentiles that are computed on unaggregated, raw values of a metric, use [distribution metrics][9] instead. 
```

{{% collapse-content title="Percentiles in Multilayer Space Aggregation example query" level="h5" %}}

We can use percentiles in multilayer space aggregation to additionally summarize the results of our nested query (avg CPU utilization by `env` and `team` every 5 minutes) by calculating the p95th value of this nested query for every unique `env` value. 

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-space-agg-ui.png" alt="example of MLA space agg percentiles using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-space-agg-json.png" alt="example of MLA space agg percentiles using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

  {{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="Standard deviation example query" level="h5" %}}

Standard deviation helps measure the variability or dispersion of a dataset. The following query uses standard deviation with multilayer time aggregation to calculate the standard deviation of our nested query (sum of API request counts, averaged over 4 hour) over longer twelve-hour periods:

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

>  {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-ui.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: Can we find another metric query to demonstrate stddev that doesn't look randomly cut off? @ouracheal

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-json.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

> ## Higher Resolution Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Higher Resolution Queries over Historical Timeframes
```

> As a reminder, every metric query contains an initial layer of time aggregation (aka. rollup) which controls the granularity of datapoints plotted on a graph. Datadog provides default rollup time intervals that grow as your overall query timeframe grows. With nested queries, you can now access more granular, high-resolution data over longer, historical timeframes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reminder, every metric query contains an initial layer of time aggregation (aka. rollup) which controls the granularity of datapoints shown. Datadog provides default rollup time intervals that increase as your overall query timeframe grows. With nested queries, you can now access more granular, high-resolution data over longer, historical timeframes.
```

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/higher-res-query-example.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{% collapse-content title="Higher resolution example query" level="h5" %}}

> Historically when querying a metric over the past month, you would see data at 4-hour granularity. You can now use nested queries to access higher granularity data over this historical timeframe. Here's an example that calculates the standard deviation of high-resolution metrics batch counts, with a 5-minute base and a 4-hour reducer interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically when querying a metric over the past month, you would see data at 4-hour granularity by default. You can now use nested queries to access higher granularity data over this historical timeframe. Here's an example query graphed over the past month where the query batch count is initially rolled up in 5 minute intervals. Then multilayer time aggregation is applied to calculate the standard deviation in time of this nested query over 4 hour intervals for a more human-readable graph.
```

_Note: We recommend you define your initial rollup with the most granular rollup interval and use multilayer time aggregation with coarser rollup intervals to get more user-readable graphs._

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

> {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-higher-res-ui.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: This image needs to be replaced to match the description above -- higher resolution queries are the most valuable over historical timeframes (>2d) (not the realtime timeframe shown in this screenshot)

Author: Gotcha, thanks for the callout here. I've updated the example to query for the past month instead of the past day.

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-higher-res-json.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

> 

Reviewer: please make sure to update this JSON when you've updated the above screenshot

---
title: Nested Queries
further_reading:
- link: "/dashboards/querying/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Dashboard Querying"
---

## Overview

{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="Join the Preview!">}}

>   This feature is in Preview. Please reach out to Customer Success to get this feature enabled. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This feature is in Preview. To enable this feature, reach out to Customer Success. 
```

{{< /callout >}}  

> Every metric query in Datadog consists of two layers of aggregation by default (quick refresher [here][5]).
> Nested queries allows you to reuse the results of a previous query in a subsequent one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, every metric query in Datadog consists of two layers of aggregation. Nested queries allows you to reuse the results of a previous query in a subsequent one.
```

Reviewer 2: I removed the `(quick refresher [here][5])` since it's repeated in the next section.

{{< img src="metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-example-video.mp4" alt="How to configure nested queries in the UI" video=true style="width:100%" >}}

Nested queries unlocks several powerful capabilities: 

- [Multilayer aggregation][6]
- [Percentiles and standard deviation on count/rate/gauge type metrics][7]
- [Higher resolution queries over historical timeframes][8]

## Multilayer aggregation

> In Datadog, each metric query in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregation: first by time, then by space (review the anatomy of a metric's query [here][5]). Multilayer aggregation allows you to apply additional layers of time or space aggregation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Datadog, each metric query in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregation: first by time, then by space. Multilayer aggregation allows you to apply additional layers of time or space aggregation. For more information on aggregation, see the [anatomy of a metric's query][5].
```

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-before-after.png" alt="example of applying nested queries before and after" style="width:100%;" >}}

### Multilayer time aggregation

> Multilayer time aggregation can be accessed with the `rollup` function. As a reminder, every metric query already contains an initial `rollup` (time aggregation) that controls the granularity of the data points displayed on the graph. For more information, see the [Rollup][1] documentation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access multilayer time aggregation with the `rollup` function. Every metric query already contains an initial `rollup` (time aggregation) that controls the granularity of the data points displayed on the graph. For more information, see the [Rollup][1] documentation. 
```

| Timeshift functions    | `<METRIC_NAME>{*}, -<TIME_IN_SECOND>`<br> `hour_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `day_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `week_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `month_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})` |
| Top-k selection        | `top(<METRIC_NAME>{*}, <LIMIT_TO>, '<BY>', '<DIR>')`                                         |

Any functions not listed above cannot be combined with multilayer time aggregation. 

{{% collapse-content title="Time aggregation example query" level="h5" %}}
This query first calculates the average CPU utilization for each EC2 instance grouped by `env` and `team`, rolled up into 5-minute intervals. Then multilayer time aggregation is applied to calculate the 95th percentile in time of this nested query over 30m intervals. 

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-time-agg-ui.png" alt="example of multilayer time aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-time-agg-json.png" alt="example of multilayer time aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

### Multilayer space aggregation

> Once you've already specified tag(s) in your first layer of space aggregation to group by, multilayer space aggregation can be accessed with the `Group By` function. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you specify tag(s) in your first layer of space aggregation to group by, access multilayer space aggregation with the `Group By` function. 
```

The first layer of space aggregation supports the following aggregators:

- `avg by`
- `sum by`
- `min by`
- `max by`

Additional layers of space aggregation support:

- `avg by`
- `sum by`
- `min by`
- `max by`
- `arbitrary percentile pXX` (`p75, p99, p99.99, etc.`)
- `stddev by`

Multilayer space aggregation can be used with the following functions: 
| Supported Functions   | Description                                                                                    |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Arithmetic operators   | `+, -, *, /`                                                                                  |
| Timeshift functions    | `<METRIC_NAME>{*}, -<TIME_IN_SECOND>`<br> `hour_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `day_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `week_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `month_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})` |
| Top-k selection        | `top(<METRIC_NAME>{*}, <LIMIT_TO>, '<BY>', '<DIR>')`                                         |

Any other functions not listed above cannot be combined with multilayer space aggregation. 

> All space aggregators with the exception of percentile space aggregators have one argument, which is the tag key(s) you'd want to group by. Percentile space aggregators require two arguments: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All space aggregators with the exception of percentile space aggregators have one argument, which is the tag key(s) you want to group by. Percentile space aggregators require two arguments: 
```

- The arbitrary percentile pXX
- The tag(s) to group by

{{% collapse-content title="Space aggregation example queries" level="h5" %}}
This initial query, `avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300)` calculates the sum of average CPU utilization, grouped by `env` and `host` every 5 minutes. Then multilayer space aggregation is applied to calculate maximum value of the average CPU utilization by `env`.

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-space-agg-ui.png" alt="example of multilayer space aggregation in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-space-agg-json.png" alt="example of multilayer space aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

> ## Percentiles and Standard Deviation for Aggregated Counts/Rates/Gauges

Reviewer 2: Are these separated with `/` in the app? Or is this just to shorten the sentence?

```suggestion
## Percentiles and Standard Deviation for aggregated counts, rates, and gauges
```

Author: Do we need to have special capitalization for counts, rates, and gauges? I see in this public doc we capitalize all the letters
https://docs.datadoghq.com/metrics/types/?tab=count#metric-types

> You can use multilayer aggregation (time / space) to query percentiles and standard deviation from queries on counts/rates/gauges. They allow you to better understand the variability and spread of your large datasets and allow you to better identify outliers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use multilayer aggregation (time and space) to query percentiles and standard deviation from queries on counts, rates, and gauges. They allow you to better understand the variability and spread of your large datasets and allow you to better identify outliers. 
```

Reviewer 2: What's the `They` in  "They allow you to better understand the variability and spread of your large datasets and allow you to better identify outliers."

> Note: nested queries' percentile/standard deviation aggregators are calculated using the results of an existing, aggregated count/rate/gauge metrics. For globally accurate percentiles that are computed on unaggregated, raw values of a metric, use [distribution metrics][9] instead. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: The percentile or standard deviation aggregators in Nested queries are calculated using the results of an existing, aggregated count, rate, or gauge metrics. For globally accurate percentiles that are computed on unaggregated, raw values of a metric, use [distribution metrics][9] instead. 
```

 {{% collapse-content title="Percentiles in Multilayer Time Aggregation example query " level="h5" %}}

> We can use percentiles in multilayer time aggregation to additionally summarize the results of our nested query (avg CPU utilization by `env` and `team` every 5 minutes) by calculating the p95th value of this nested query every 30 minutes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use percentiles in multilayer time aggregation to summarize the results of our nested query (avg CPU utilization by `env` and `team` every 5 minutes) by calculating the p95th value of this nested query every 30 minutes. 
```

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-time-agg-ui.png" alt="example of MLA time agg percentiles using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-time-agg-json.png" alt="example of MLA time agg percentiles using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{% /collapse-content %}} 
 

{{% collapse-content title="Percentiles in Multilayer Space Aggregation example query" level="h5" %}}

> We can use percentiles in multilayer space aggregation to additionally summarize the results of our nested query (avg CPU utilization by `env` and `team` every 5 minutes) by calculating the p95th value of this nested query for every unique `env` value. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use percentiles in multilayer space aggregation to summarize the results of our nested query (avg CPU utilization by `env` and `team` every 5 minutes) by calculating the p95th value of this nested query for every unique `env` value. 
```

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-space-agg-ui.png" alt="example of MLA space agg percentiles using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-space-agg-json.png" alt="example of MLA space agg percentiles using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

  {{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="Standard deviation example query" level="h5" %}}

Standard deviation helps measure the variability or dispersion of a dataset. The following query uses standard deviation with multilayer time aggregation to calculate the standard deviation of our nested query (sum of API request counts, averaged over 4 hour) over longer twelve-hour periods:

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-ui.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-json.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

> ## Higher Resolution Queries over Historical Timeframes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Higher resolution queries over historical time frames
```

> As a reminder, every metric query contains an initial layer of time aggregation (rollup) which controls the granularity of datapoints shown. Datadog provides default rollup time intervals that increase as your overall query timeframe grows. With nested queries, you can now access more granular, high-resolution data over longer, historical timeframes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every metric query contains an initial layer of time aggregation (rollup) which controls the granularity of datapoints shown. Datadog provides default rollup time intervals that increase as your overall query timeframe grows. With nested queries, you can access more granular, high-resolution data over longer, historical timeframes.
```

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/higher-res-query-example.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries over historical timeframes in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{% collapse-content title="Higher resolution example query" level="h5" %}}

> Historically when querying a metric over the past month, you would see data at 4-hour granularity by default. You can now use nested queries to access higher granularity data over this historical timeframe. Here's an example query graphed over the past month where the query batch count is initially rolled up in 5 minute intervals. Then multilayer time aggregation is applied to calculate the standard deviation in time of this nested query over 4 hour intervals for a more human-readable graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Historically, when querying a metric over the past month, you would see data at 4-hour granularity by default. You can use nested queries to access higher granularity data over this historical timeframe. Here's an example query graphed over the past month where the query batch count is initially rolled up in 5 minute intervals. Then multilayer time aggregation is applied to calculate the standard deviation in time of this nested query over 4 hour intervals for a more human-readable graph.
```

> _Note: We recommend you define your initial rollup with the most granular rollup interval and use multilayer time aggregation with coarser rollup intervals to get more user-readable graphs._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_**Note**: Datadog recommends that you define your initial rollup with the most granular rollup interval and use multilayer time aggregation with coarser rollup intervals to get more user-readable graphs._
```

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-higher-res-ui.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-higher-res-json.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

> ## How can I use Datadog API's to leverage nested queries?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use nested queries with Datadog's API
```

> You can use nested queries functionality in our public API for querying timeseries data [here][3]. Simply change the contents of the **formula** object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use nested queries functionality in our [public API for querying timeseries data][3]. Change the contents of the **formula** object
```

---
title: Nested Queries
further_reading:
- link: "/dashboards/querying/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Dashboard Querying"
---

## Overview

{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="Join the Preview!">}}
  This feature is in Preview. Please reach out to Customer Success to get this feature enabled. 
{{< /callout >}}  

Every metric query in Datadog consists of two layers of aggregation by default (quick refresher [here][5]).
Nested queries allows you to reuse the results of a previous query in a subsequent one.

{{< img src="metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-example-video.mp4" alt="How to configure nested queries in the UI" video=true style="width:100%" >}}

Nested queries unlocks several powerful capabilities: 

- [Multilayer aggregation][6]
- [Percentiles and standard deviation on count/rate/gauge type metrics][7]

> - [Higher resolution queries over historical timeframes][8]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Higher resolution queries over historical timeframes][8]
- [Moving Rollup with Lookback][8]
- [Threshold Remapping Functions][8]
```

Make sure the newer links link to the sections added below

## Multilayer aggregation

In Datadog, each metric query in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregation: first by time, then by space (review the anatomy of a metric's query [here][5]). Multilayer aggregation allows you to apply additional layers of time or space aggregation.

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-before-after.png" alt="example of applying nested queries before and after" style="width:100%;" >}}

> Other functions cannot be combined with multilayer aggregation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Timeshift functions    | `<METRIC_NAME>{*}, -<TIME_IN_SECOND>`<br> `hour_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `day_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `week_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})`<br> `month_before(<METRIC_NAME>{*})` |
| Top-k selection        | `top(<METRIC_NAME>{*}, <LIMIT_TO>, '<BY>', '<DIR>')`                                         |

Any functions not listed above cannot be combined with multilayer time aggregation. 

{{% collapse-content title="Time aggregation example query" level="h5" %}}
This query first calculates the average CPU utilization for each EC2 instance grouped by `env` and `team`, rolled up into 5-minute intervals. Then multilayer time aggregation is applied to calculate the 95th percentile in time of this nested query over 30m intervals. 

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-time-agg-ui.png" alt="example of multilayer time aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-time-agg-json.png" alt="example of multilayer time aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

### Multilayer space aggregation

> Once you've already specified tag(s) in your first layer of space aggregation to group by, multilayer space aggregation can be accessed with the `Group By` function. As a reminder, every metrics query already contains an initial space aggregation that controls the number of timeseries displayed on the graph. For example, this query `avg:system.cpu.usage{*} by {host}` plots the average cpu usage for every host. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've already specified tag(s) in your first layer of space aggregation to group by, multilayer space aggregation can be accessed with the `Group By` function. 
```

- The arbitrary percentile pXX
- The tag(s) to group by

{{% collapse-content title="Space aggregation example queries" level="h5" %}}
This initial query, `avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300)` calculates the sum of average CPU utilization, grouped by `env` and `host` every 5 minutes. Then multilayer space aggregation is applied to calculate maximum value of the average CPU utilization by `env`.

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-space-agg-ui.png" alt="example of multilayer space aggregation in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/multilayer-space-agg-json.png" alt="example of multilayer space aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

## Percentiles and Standard Deviation for Aggregated Counts/Rates/Gauges

You can use multilayer aggregation (time / space) to query percentiles and standard deviation from queries on counts/rates/gauges. They allow you to better understand the variability and spread of your large datasets and allow you to better identify outliers. 

> Note: nested queries' percentile/standard deviation aggregators are calculated using the results of an existing, aggregated metric query. For globally accurate percentiles that are computed on unaggregated, raw values of a metric, use [distribution metrics][9] instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: nested queries' percentile/standard deviation aggregators are calculated using the results of an existing, aggregated count/rate/gauge metrics. For globally accurate percentiles that are computed on unaggregated, raw values of a metric, use [distribution metrics][9] instead. 
```

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-space-agg-ui.png" alt="example of MLA space agg percentiles using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/percentiles-space-agg-json.png" alt="example of MLA space agg percentiles using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

  {{% /collapse-content %}} 

{{% collapse-content title="Standard deviation example query" level="h5" %}}

Standard deviation helps measure the variability or dispersion of a dataset. The following query uses standard deviation with multilayer time aggregation to calculate the standard deviation of our nested query (sum of API request counts, averaged over 4 hour) over longer twelve-hour periods:

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-ui.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

>  {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-std-json.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: image needs to look less sparse, uninteresting/not cutoff

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

## Higher Resolution Queries over Historical Timeframes

> As a reminder, every metric query contains an initial layer of time aggregation (aka. rollup) which controls the granularity of datapoints shown. Datadog provides default rollup time intervals that increase as your overall query timeframe grows. With nested queries, you can now access more granular, high-resolution data over longer, historical timeframes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reminder, every metric query contains an initial layer of time aggregation (rollup) which controls the granularity of datapoints shown. Datadog provides default rollup time intervals that increase as your overall query timeframe grows. With nested queries, you can now access more granular, high-resolution data over longer, historical timeframes.
```

>  {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/higher-res-query-example.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 {{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/higher-res-query-example.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries over historical timeframes in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

Historically when querying a metric over the past month, you would see data at 4-hour granularity by default. You can now use nested queries to access higher granularity data over this historical timeframe. Here's an example query graphed over the past month where the query batch count is initially rolled up in 5 minute intervals. Then multilayer time aggregation is applied to calculate the standard deviation in time of this nested query over 4 hour intervals for a more human-readable graph.

_Note: We recommend you define your initial rollup with the most granular rollup interval and use multilayer time aggregation with coarser rollup intervals to get more user-readable graphs._

In the UI or JSON tab, it would look as follows:

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-higher-res-ui.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the UI" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/nested-queries-higher-res-json.png" alt="example of higher resolution queries using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} 

## Moving rollup

> Datadog provides a `moving_rollup` function that enables aggregation of data points over a specified time window (quick refresher [here][10]). By using nested queries, you can extend its functionality to incorporate lookback mode, allowing you to analyze data points beyond the original query window. This provides a more comprehensive view of your query's trends and patterns over the specified time window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog offers a`moving_rollup` function that allows you to define the time interval you want your metric's values to be rolled up from the start of your query timeframe (quick refresher [here][10]). By using nested queries, you can extend the functionality of Datadog's `moving_rollup` function to incorporate a lookback mode, allowing you to look back at historical data values (beyond the queried timeframe) and aggregate them in your moving rollup.  
```

{{< img src="/metrics/nested_queries/moving-rollup-diagram.png" alt="example of old vs. new moving_rollup function" style="width:100%;" >}}

The existing version of the `moving-rollup` function only supports the following aggregators:

- `avg`
- `sum`
- `min`
- `max`
- `median`

When nesting queries, only the lookback mode version of the `moving_rollup` function can be used. This version of the function supports the following aggregators:

- `avg`
- `sum`
- `min`
- `max`
- `count`
- `arbitrary percentile pxx` (`p78, p99, p99.99, etc.`)
- `stddev`

{{% collapse-content title="Moving rollup example query" level="h5" %}}
When nesting these `moving_rollups`, the rollup intervals provided must get larger. 

{{% /collapse-content %}} 

> ## Remapping functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Threshold remapping functions
```

> Remap functions give you the ability to refine and transform query results based on specific conditions, extending functionality for monitoring and analysis (read more about remap functions [here][]). Nested queries unlocks the following 3 new functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Threshold remapping functions allow you to transform query results to binary values based on boolean conditions (read more about remap functions [here][]). Nested queries unlocks the following 3 new functions:
```

> - `is_greater` (`<QUERY>, <THRESHOLD>`)

Reviewer: Can we make this a table where the three functions are each a row and then we have the parameters as well as a definition of what the function does? 

For example is_greater(<query>, 10) will return values of 1 where your metric query > 10 and 0 elsewhere
